Version control system 
Repository is a folder where you load the current project
Github is an online platform where you host repositories whereas git is just a tool for you to do so.

git clone -> used to clone a github repoitory in your local machine
git add -> add is just add the changes and tells git that you have made some changes
git commit -> this is commiting your changes / this is saving the changes 
git push -> uploading your file to remote repository. 

commits can be viewed in github (there is a button to do so)

git status ... this tells what is the status of all the files in the directory.

What files are added what are commited is it upto date with which branch etc. etc.

git add is basically to add the files that you want git to track 

All of this is happening in the local directory, to make is visible in the remote repository , we need to git push it.

github push origin master 

here origin is self directory and master is the branch you wnt to push into

How to push new repositories from local machine directly into github ? 

first initialize a git repository in your local machine.
Then add the url of where it should be pushed

Added using git remote add origin 'URL'

git push -u origin main -> What this does is that it sets up upstream.

What is a git pull ?
If the remote repository is not our own, then we cannot directly puhs the changes there , instead what we need to do is that we first need to make a git pull command.

Master is the default branch in a repository 

A new branch can be made and we can make changes there.

Each branch looks at changes only that happen on its own branch.

Git branch is the command that shows you all the branches.

Git checkout is used to change branches.

This branch not only shows all the branches but also which branch you are on.

You can use git commit -a -m , the -a flag is actually a flag that also adds for you, not just commit the changes.

git diff shows you the difference ... idk what the exact arguments to the commands are 

Git diff actually shows you the changes since the last commit 

There are actually 2 ways to merge a code :
1. You just use git merge.... in this the argument you pass is the branch you want to merge into main.
2. The second approach is to push this to a new branch and then do a pull request.

You can make a comment about a particular line also in pull requests

OOOOOOO so basically origin is your local computer...
remote is the remote server
and pull request is just merging one code into other... this is generally pulled from the server to origin and hence called pull.

you can delete a branch using 
git branch -d branch-name

git merge X , merges the branch X into your current branch

git reset is to unstage a file ... this brings added files into unstaged mode.

git reset HEAD~x uncommits , it roll backs to x version back.

Forking in git...
forking is just clone ? bringing some other code into your github repository.

Fork is basically for being able to make pull requests later.
